---
layout: post
title:  "Why a blog?"
date:   2016-03-11 20:30:00 +0000
categories: blog-meta
---

I thought people might be interested in why I've decided to
start a blog, and I need a few posts so I can test out the features of
the site, so here goes.

I wanted to somewhere to record my thoughts about various things,
mostly programming projects and what I've been
reading/watching/playing. And because I'm a child of the 21st century,
my first reaction to that kind of thought is "stick it up on the
public internet for anyone to read".

Because I'm a programmer, I decided to write my own website rather
than using a site builder or blogging platform. That said, using a
static site generator is hardly a strenuous way to write a simple
website. I should be able to extend it to do anything I want though,
as long as it doesn't need anything going on behind the scenes (on the
server). More on the technical details of how I did it in another
post.

Maybe I'm just going to be shouting into the void, but I thinking
writing down my thoughts will be therapeutic. Plus some of my friends
and family may be interested in what goes on in my head all the time.

In the future I may also use the site as a portfolio for any projects
I do that I can stick up on the web. And it's nice to have a little
corner of the internet to call my own.

Why MechToast?
==============

I'm anticipating everyone asking me this question, because no one's
heard the name before. Story time: back at university I used to host a
minecraft server, with accompanying website, for a group of friends
(mostly housemates). That site and server are long gone, but while I
was running it I saw that the hosting company we used had a special
offer on domain names and hosting, and I decided to give it a try. I
bought up MechToast.biz and... did nothing with it until my hosting
expired.

But that doesn't actually explain where you got the name, I hear you
cry. Actually the name came from... nowhere really. The random firings
of my brain in the form of word association. I thought of it, liked
it, and decided to run with it. The image you should think of is a
giant 60 ft tall walking toaster that fires weaponised bread
products. It may have been influenced in part by some combination of
Battlestar Galactica's "toasters" (i.e. a racial slur for androids)
and the Talkie Toaster from Red Dwarf. But I may be attaching those
associations after the fact.

Anyway, cut to now, I've been meaning to start up a blog for a while
and I remembered my old unused name and ran with it. And that's why
you're reading this on MechToast.com.

Final note: .com domains are timeless and classic and superior to all
this modern .io/.xyz/.ninja nonsense. And yes I'm that much of a geek
that I have strong opinions about TLDs.